docs/index.md, before:

---
organization: Turbot
category: ["saas"]
icon_url: "/images/plugins/turbot/okta.svg"
brand_color: "#00297A"
display_name: "Okta"
name: "okta"
description: "Steampipe plugin for querying resource users, groups, applications and more from Okta."
og_description: "Query Okta with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required."
og_image: "/images/plugins/turbot/okta-social-graphic.png"
engines: ["steampipe", "sqlite", "postgres", "export"]
---

# Okta + Steampipe

[Okta](https://www.okta.com/) is the leading independent identity provider. The Okta Identity enables organizations to securely connect the right people to the right technologies at the right time.

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open-source zero-ETL engine to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

For example:

```sql
select
  login,
  id,
  email,
  created
from
  okta_user;
```

```
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| login               | id                   | email               | created             |
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| subhajit@turbot.com | 00u1e63jiqAHskqSd5d7 | subhajit@turbot.com | 2021-08-02 13:35:54 |
| lalit@turbot.com    | 00u1e5eizrjQKTWMA5d7 | lalit@turbot.com    | 2021-08-02 10:57:05 |
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/turbot/okta/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest Okta plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install okta
```

### Credentials

| Item        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Credentials | Okta requires a domain and an [API token](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/create-the-token/) or [a service app and private key](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/overview/) for all requests.                          |
| Permissions | API tokens have the same permissions as the user who creates them, and if the user permissions change, the API token permissions also change. Service application permissions are based on granted [OAuth scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta/scopes/). |
| Radius      | Each connection represents a single Okta Organization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Resolution  | 1. With configuration provided in connection in steampipe _**.spc**_ config file.<br />2. With okta environment variables.<br />3. An okta.yaml file in a .okta folder in the current user's home directory _**(~/.okta/okta.yaml or %userprofile\.okta\okta.yaml)**_.                      |

### Configuration

Installing the latest okta plugin will create a config file (~/.steampipe/config/okta.spc) with a single connection named okta:

```hcl
connection "okta" {
  plugin = "okta"

  # Get your API token from Okta https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/create-the-token/
  # Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL environment variable.
  # domain = "https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com"

  # Okta API token. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN environment variable.
  # token  = "02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token"

  # Or use an Okta application and the client credentials flow for authenticating: https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/overview/
  # Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL environment variable.
  # domain      = "https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com"

  # Okta App client id, used with PrivateKey OAuth auth mode. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_CLIENTID environment variable.
  # client_id   = "0oa10zpa2bo6tAm9Test"

  # Private key value. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_PRIVATEKEY environment variable.
  # private_key = "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEpAIBAAK..."

  # The maximum number of attempts (including the initial call) Steampipe will
  # make for failing API calls. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_RETRIES environment variable.
  # Defaults to 5 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # max_retries = 5

  # The maximum amount of time to wait on request back off. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BACKOFF environment variable.
  # Defaults to 30 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # max_backoff = 30

  # HTTP request time out in seconds. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_REQUEST_TIMEOUT environment variable.
  # Defaults to 30 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # request_timeout = 30
}
```

By default, all options are commented out in the default connection, thus Steampipe will resolve your credentials using the same order as mentioned in [Credentials](#credentials). This provides a quick way to get started with Steampipe, but you will probably want to customize your experience using configuration options for querying multiple organizations, configuring credentials from your okta configuration files, [environment variables](#credentials-from-environment-variables), etc.

If using the Okta service application, the following scopes must be enabled for Steampipe to be able to access the Okta APIs:
- okta.users.read
- okta.groups.read
- okta.apps.read
- okta.roles.read
- okta.policies.read
- okta.authorizationServers.read
- okta.trustedOrigins.read
- okta.factors.read

**Note:** Table `okta_user_type` and `okta_network_zone` doesn't work in Service App authentication mode.

## Configuring Okta Credentials

### Credentials from Environment Variables

The Okta plugin will use the standard Okta environment variables to obtain credentials **only if other arguments (`domain`, `token`, `client_id`, `private_key`) are not specified** in the connection:

#### API Token

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN=02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token
```

#### API Token with maximum number retries attempts

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN=02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token
export OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_RETRIES=10
export OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BACKOFF=40
```

#### Service App

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_CLIENTID=0oa10zpa2bo6tAm9Test
export OKTA_CLIENT_PRIVATEKEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEpAIBAAK..."
```

Commit message:

Updated the policy tables to work for okta classic and identity account

docs/index.md, after:

---
organization: Turbot
category: ["saas"]
icon_url: "/images/plugins/turbot/okta.svg"
brand_color: "#00297A"
display_name: "Okta"
name: "okta"
description: "Steampipe plugin for querying resource users, groups, applications and more from Okta."
og_description: "Query Okta with SQL! Open source CLI. No DB required."
og_image: "/images/plugins/turbot/okta-social-graphic.png"
engines: ["steampipe", "sqlite", "postgres", "export"]
---

# Okta + Steampipe

[Okta](https://www.okta.com/) is the leading independent identity provider. The Okta Identity enables organizations to securely connect the right people to the right technologies at the right time.

[Steampipe](https://steampipe.io) is an open-source zero-ETL engine to instantly query cloud APIs using SQL.

For example:

```sql
select
  login,
  id,
  email,
  created
from
  okta_user;
```

```
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| login               | id                   | email               | created             |
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
| subhajit@turbot.com | 00u1e63jiqAHskqSd5d7 | subhajit@turbot.com | 2021-08-02 13:35:54 |
| lalit@turbot.com    | 00u1e5eizrjQKTWMA5d7 | lalit@turbot.com    | 2021-08-02 10:57:05 |
+---------------------+----------------------+---------------------+---------------------+
```

## Documentation

- **[Table definitions & examples →](/plugins/turbot/okta/tables)**

## Get started

### Install

Download and install the latest Okta plugin:

```bash
steampipe plugin install okta
```

### Credentials

| Item        | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 |
|-------------|---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Credentials | Okta requires a domain and an [API token](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/create-the-token/) or [a service app and private key](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/overview/) for all requests.                          |
| Permissions | API tokens have the same permissions as the user who creates them, and if the user permissions change, the API token permissions also change. Service application permissions are based on granted [OAuth scopes](https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta/scopes/). |
| Radius      | Each connection represents a single Okta Organization.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
| Resolution  | 1. With configuration provided in connection in steampipe _**.spc**_ config file.<br />2. With okta environment variables.<br />3. An okta.yaml file in a .okta folder in the current user's home directory _**(~/.okta/okta.yaml or %userprofile\.okta\okta.yaml)**_.                      |

### Configuration

Installing the latest okta plugin will create a config file (~/.steampipe/config/okta.spc) with a single connection named okta:

```hcl
connection "okta" {
  plugin = "okta"

  # Specify the Okta engine type. It should be either "classic" or "identity".
  # https://support.okta.com/help/s/article/differences-between-okta-classic-and-okta-identity-engine-oie?language=en_US
  # engine_type = "classic"

  # Get your API token from Okta https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/create-an-api-token/create-the-token/
  # Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL environment variable.
  # domain = "https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com"

  # Okta API token. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN environment variable.
  # token  = "02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token"

  # Or use an Okta application and the client credentials flow for authenticating: https://developer.okta.com/docs/guides/implement-oauth-for-okta-serviceapp/overview/
  # Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL environment variable.
  # domain      = "https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com"

  # Okta App client id, used with PrivateKey OAuth auth mode. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_CLIENTID environment variable.
  # client_id   = "0oa10zpa2bo6tAm9Test"

  # Private key value. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_PRIVATEKEY environment variable.
  # private_key = "-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEpAIBAAK..."

  # The maximum number of attempts (including the initial call) Steampipe will
  # make for failing API calls. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_RETRIES environment variable.
  # Defaults to 5 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # max_retries = 5

  # The maximum amount of time to wait on request back off. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BACKOFF environment variable.
  # Defaults to 30 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # max_backoff = 30

  # HTTP request time out in seconds. Can also be set with the OKTA_CLIENT_REQUEST_TIMEOUT environment variable.
  # Defaults to 30 and must be greater than or equal to 1.
  # request_timeout = 30
}
```

By default, all options are commented out in the default connection, thus Steampipe will resolve your credentials using the same order as mentioned in [Credentials](#credentials). This provides a quick way to get started with Steampipe, but you will probably want to customize your experience using configuration options for querying multiple organizations, configuring credentials from your okta configuration files, [environment variables](#credentials-from-environment-variables), etc.

If using the Okta service application, the following scopes must be enabled for Steampipe to be able to access the Okta APIs:
- okta.users.read
- okta.groups.read
- okta.apps.read
- okta.roles.read
- okta.policies.read
- okta.authorizationServers.read
- okta.trustedOrigins.read
- okta.factors.read

**Note:** Table `okta_user_type` and `okta_network_zone` doesn't work in Service App authentication mode.

## Configuring Okta Credentials

### Credentials from Environment Variables

The Okta plugin will use the standard Okta environment variables to obtain credentials **only if other arguments (`domain`, `token`, `client_id`, `private_key`) are not specified** in the connection:

#### API Token

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN=02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token
```

#### API Token with maximum number retries attempts

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_TOKEN=02d0YZgNSJwlNew6lZG-6qGThisisatest-token
export OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_RETRIES=10
export OKTA_CLIENT_RATE_LIMIT_MAX_BACKOFF=40
```

#### Service App

```sh
export OKTA_CLIENT_ORGURL=https://<your_okta_domain>.okta.com
export OKTA_CLIENT_CLIENTID=0oa10zpa2bo6tAm9Test
export OKTA_CLIENT_PRIVATEKEY="-----BEGIN RSA PRIVATE KEY-----\nMIIEpAIBAAK..."
```
